---
tags:
  - Computer_Science
---
# Data Mining
Data mining is defined as "the process used by companies used to turn raw data into useful information".

Data mining involves searching and analysing large batches of raw data to identify patterns and extract useful information from it. The information extracted can range from customer purchase choices to where to build hotels.
A large example of dating mining is social media platforms, which consume all of the raw data generated by their users and sell it to advertisers.

Data mining comes under criticism are many users are unaware of their personal information being used for this purpose.

The raw data collected is usually stored in the cloud or a "warehouses".
Warehousing is a core part of data mining. It is the centralisation of data into a single database/program. This makes it easier to analyse connections between seemingly unrelated data.

Once the raw data has been mined, it is usually presented as a graph or a table, as these are easier to read and comprehend for humans.

## Algorithms
Common data mining algorithms include:
- Association rules
- Classification
- Clustering
- Decision tress
- K-Nearest Neighbour (KNN)
- Neural networks
- Predictive analysis

## Process of Data Mining
- Understand the business
- Understand the data
- Prepare the data
- Build the model
- Evaluate result
- Implement change and monitor

## Advantages
- Drives profitability and efficiency
- Universally applicable
- Highlights unexpected correlations
## Disadvantages
- Expensive
- Complex process
- Benefits are not guaranteed

## Real World Examples
Netflix: To personalise content recommendations

Supermarkets: Change shop layout to better suit customer purchases

