---
tags:
  - Computer_Science/Worksheet
---
# 1.1-5
\1) Music Players - So the music can be heard
Public announcement system - So that the public announcement can be heard.
Cinema - So that the audio from the movie can be heard.

2a
In mobile phones
In smart watches

2b
It has a low power draw, which is good for phones as the screen will consume a large amount of power, and they are portable devices so available power is limited.
It has good viewing angles, which allows you to interact with your phone without having to look at it directly, this makes it more comfortable to use as you do not ned to be at a right-angle to it.
It is brighter, this is good as during sunny weather it can be hard to use phones due to the sun light being drastically brighter than the phone screen, making it hard to see what is being displayed by the screen.

3
Newspapers having moving images would allow for better understand of situations that occur over time that can be hard to understand from a single image. For example, a building collapsing or a goal being scored in football. This will allow for the people reading the newspaper to have a better understanding of events, as it's easier to feel connected to something when you can witness it occurring.
However, the cost of this would be prohibitive, as a display would have to be included with a newspaper to show a video/moving images, this would cause the price of the papers to increase massively beyond what most people could afford. Furthermore, the physical space to power and operate the display would be much lager than the width of paper so it would be infeasible to fit on a single page.
It's mainly for the cost that i do not see this to be possible in the future, especially since other methods of consuming news, such as tv or through websites already can contain moving images/videos.

