---
tags:
  - Computer_Science/Worksheet
---
# 1.1-6
1a Read Only Memory
1b BIOS, as this is required every time the computer boots up so it needs to be non-volatile and it is unlikely that this will need updating
1c Random Access Memory
1d Store instructions for programs that are currently running. Store data for programs that are currently running. As RAM is faster than reading from secondary storage, this increases performance.

2a Virtual memory is used to store currently used data and instructions if RAM is full
2b By reserving a storage space on the secondary storage for use even if RAM is not full, so there will always be a place to store extra data. When RAM is full and new data needs to be moved into RAM, the least used data currently in RAM will be written to the virtual memory on the secondary storage, and the new data will be put into RAM. When writing or reading data the RAM is checked first, and if it's not in the RAM then the change is made to the virtual memory.
2c A problem is that since secondary storage is significantly slower then RAM, it could cause alot of freezing and stutters whilst data is fetched from the slow secondary storage. This can significantly hinder the user experince.

3 They have a good cost per unit of data stored compared to solid state storage. Magnetic hard disks are cheaper than solid state storage (?)

4 Because they are lighter than hard drives, so they are easier to carry around as these devices are designed to be transported. And a SSD has no moving parts, whereas a hard disk does. This could cause damage if a hard disk was used as during transportation these devices could experience high and sudden forces.

---

2c + Disk thrashing
\+ More time spent transferring data than processing it.

3 Cheaper. Larger storage capacity

4 + More durable due to having no moving parts