---
tags:
  - Computer_Science/Worksheet
---
# 1.1

1ai It holds the address of the next instruction to be executed by the CPU. It is incremented each fetch cycle, to fetch the next instruction to be executed. Its content is sent to the MAR every fetch cycle to give the instruction to fetch from memory.

1aii It holds the current instruction that was read from memory by the MDR that the CPU will decode. When decoding the instruction the CPU reads from the CIR register, depending on the instruction it contains it will either execute it immediately, or fetch more data from memory using the MAR and the MDR as needed by the instruction.

1b Data Bus : Transfers the data between the registers in the CPU
Control Bus : Controls the behaviour of each part of the CPU
Clock Bus : Transmits the clock pulse to advance the FDE cycle

2 It is where multiple instances of the FDE cycle occur in parallel with each other.
E.G
1 fetch A
2 fetch B decode A
3 fetch C decode B execute A
It can be used in RISC as it is known that each instruction will only take one clock cycle. It is harder to use in CISC as instructions can take multiple clock cycles to execute.

3a a GPU has thousands of cores to execute tasks in parallel (mostly commonly image processing). Each of these cores is weak, but since there is so many it combines to be very powerful.
The CPU only has four cores, but each core is extremely powerful, being able to complex lots of complex instructions extremely fast. This makes it better at executing a few complex tasks in parallel.

3b Running Large Language Models, such as ChatGPT
Image recognition, such as identify suspects in CCTV footage

4a Clock Speed, the faster the clock, the more FDE cycles that a CPU can perform per second
Cache Size, if the cache is larger there is a higher chance that the subsequent data and instructions will be in the CPU cache rather than the RAM. This will increase processor performance, as the cache is much faster to read from than RAM
Core Count, having multiple cores allows for the CPU to execute instructions in parallel, performance.

4b CISC has lots of complicated instructions, whereas RISC has only a few simple instructions

5a When the user makes a purchase online they will need to approve this by taking a a picture of there face with there phone. The bank will then use AI to analyse this image against verified images of the customer to verify that it is the same person. Then the transaction will be authorised.

5b There is no passwords for a person to forget, so that they cannot forget the password and be locked out of there account.
If the customer had motor difficulties it would be hard if not impossible for them to type in a complex password. Using a picture lets these people interact with the banking system without assistance.

5c There is no "password" to change if a hacker gained access to an account, as it is based on physical appearance, which most people would not want to change.
The system could be tricked into allowing a purchase from an image of a person.

6a
1 : USB Flash Memory stick
2 : Hard Disk
3 : CD-ROM
4 : DVD

CD-ROM: for storing music or distributing software.
DVD: For watching movies
Hard Disk: For secondary storage in personal computers, storing a range or programs and personal data
USB Flash Memory stick : For sharing small amounts of data between two computers that cannot share the data over the internet.

7 Virtual memory is space allocated on secondary storage to store data from RAM is RAM is full.

8 A ROM chip cannot be written to, only read from. So if the program fits on a smaller ROM chip then there would be no difference in performance, as the extra space will never be used

---

1b
Addresd bus : carries address from the process to memory and io devices
Data bus :
Constrol bus :

2 pipelining is used as it improves processor performance

3b
\+ Scientific analysis
\+ Engineering applications

5b + CISC programs take up less space due to less instructions being needed
\+ RISC instructions always take only one clock cycle.

7 An area of secondary storage which currently running programs and data are moved to if RAM is full and another process needs memory to start executing. The data in virtual memory is moved back to RAM once there is space.