# 1.2-1
1a
So that time-sensitive tasks can be performed instantly.
It can be used to execute tasks when they're triggered, rather than constantly polling the task.
It can be used to handle unexpected events, such as sudden power loss.

1b
The CPU checks if there has been an interrupt at the end of the FDE cycle.
There has been one so the CPU moves the program context (register values) onto the stack for safe-keeping.
The interrupt is executed.
The CPU pops the values from the stack back into the registers and resumes program execution.

1c
Because it is interacting with IO, where the user will input data. When the user will input data is not known, so an interrupt informs the CPU that the user has entered the data.

2a
If the computer does not have enough RAM, then it will need to store current programs and data in virtual memory, otherwise programs would have to be forcefully terminated to ensure that the system does not run out of memory.

2b
Paging allows for less memory to be wasted, as pages do not have to be continuous in memory.
Pages have a fixed width, so pages will always fit neatly in memory with no unused memory.

3
Round robin, executes the job that arrived first for a fixed amount of time, even if other jobs have arrived. Whereas shortest remaining time executes the job with the current shortest estimated time, and switches to a different job if a shorter one arrives.

Round robin does not distinguish between jobs jobs based upon their remain execution time. Whereas, shortest remaining time does.

Round robin is implemented using a queue. Whereas, shortest time remaining is implemented using a priority queue, which is sorted based upon the estimated execution time.

Shortest time remaining can cause starvation for long running jobs, as they might not get executed if lots of short jobs are continuously started. Whereas Round robin does not cause starvation as each job is executed for an equal amount of time.

---

1a
For error handling.
To reallocate processor time to higher priority tasks.
To make the maximum use of processor time

1c
The CPU operates significantly quicker than a human.
The CPU can process other jobs whilst waiting for human input.

2a
It allows programs to use more memory than available in RAM
parts of one or more programs can be stored in virtual memory, and swapped back into RAM when needed.

2b
Memory is divided into small fixed chunks, making it easy to reallocate.
The memory pages do not have to be continuous in RAM.
Individual pages can be swapped between RAM and virtual memory rather than an entire process, this makes better use of RAM and virtual memory whilst reducing the amount of data being swapped.

3
\+ Shortest remaining time is pre-emptive.
