---
tags:
  - Computer_Science/Worksheet
---
# 1.3-6

1a) To find and follow links between websites, recording data about each page to an index. The search engine then uses the index to find relevant results for a search query.

1bi) "KEYWORDS", "DESCRIPTION"
1bii) They are used by web crawlers to easily identify aspects of a webpage without having to parse through the entire webpage.

2 ) It's the index of webpages that a web crawler has traversed to create a database of webpages and there relevant content. This directly affects the user, as the results returned from a search engine are from the index. If the index does not include a new website then the users cannot find it. Or if the index contains a link to a webpage that no longer exists then it will still appear in search results.

3a) $d$ is the damping factor. The purpose of this is to modify how much the ranking of a page depends on the incoming and outgoing links. If it is lower then these matter less.
3b) The number of incoming links. The number of outgoing links. The quality of the webpage.

---
1a) + Save details such as page content and URL.

1bi) Bicycle, parts, accessories, etc
1bii) Contain keywords regarding the webpage content. They are not visible to the user. ~ Help web crawlers categorise webpages.

3a) $d$ corresponds to the chance a user will stop following links after five/six clicks. Furthermore, it also corresponds to the chance a webpage will be directly accessed.
3d) > 200 factors. Including: URL, keywords, inbound links, update frequency.