---
tags:
  - Computer_Science/Worksheet
---
# 1.5-1

1a) The data might be leaked in a data breach. The company does not need to know where someone lives to pay them a salary. Other members of the company using the payroll system to harass employees. The excessive data collection could be used for discrimination in salary.

1b) The company can remove and stop collecting unnecessary information, such as address. The company can encrypt the data so that if it is leaked in a data breach it hard to decrypt and use nefariously. Access to the payroll system can be restricted to accounting. There are employee protection laws that prevent discrimination from this information, which the company can inform the employees of.

2 ) Text file? - could contain instructions on how to exploit vulnerability in a company's software.
Magazine? - see above

3 )
The copyright act (1988)
She will need to make sure that she owns the copyright of the music and videos in her game, or she has a license to use the media. Alternately, ensure that the music and videos are in the public domain.
If she does not she can get sued under the copyright act for using copyrighted material in a commercial product.

Furthermore, she needs to make sure that she has the correct license to for the software tools to use them for commercial use.

4 )
Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000
ISPs have to surrender customer information to certain public institutions without notifying the customer.
Companies are required to provide unencrypted data to certain public institutions.

---

1a)
Can include:
- Personal details being passed onto other people / third parties
- Concerns over identity theft if personal information is obtained from the system.
- Personal details being obtained and used for nuisance calls
- Theft or burglary at home if work patterns can be obtained from company computers.
- Bank account could be compromised if pay details are obtained
- + any other reasonable concerns

1b)
Can include:
- Anything related to passwords
- Encryption
- restricted access to data
- Physicsal security measures
- Staff awareness
- Audit trails
- + any other reasonable measures

2 ) (i misinterpreted the question)
article as in "thing"
such as:
- key loggers - steal account logins & send it to third party.
- password crackers - can be used to gain unauthorised access to another users account

3 )

4 )
\+ ISPs fit equipment to facilitate surveillance
\+ Someone handing over the keys to protected information.