---
tags:
  - Physics
  - Homework
---
# 309
## 1
### A
Explain why an electric motor becomes warm when it is used?

The heating of the motor is caused by the motor dissipating some of its energy into the surrounding environment, this could manifest as heat from the friction of the components within the motor causing it to heat up.

### B
A battery is connected to an electric motor which is used to raise a weight at a steady speed.
When in operation, the electric motor is at a constant temperature, which is above the temperature of its surroundings. Describe the energy transfer that takes place.

As the motor is warmer than its surrounding environment, a temperature differential is created. This causes the heat to be transferred to the surrounding environment until a thermal equilibrium is be reached.

## 2
### A
Define internal energy

Internal energy is the energy of an object, due to the movements & positions of its individual molecules.

### B
Describe a situation in which the internal energy of an object is constant, even though work is being done on the object.

A situation like this could occur when the intake & discharge of internal energy for an object are in equilibrium. An example of this the components of a computer being cooled by a fan.

## 3
### A
State one difference between the motion of molecules in a solid & the motion of molecules in a liquid.

In a solid, molecules are much bound together in a lattice. This doesn't allow the molecules to move much, unless there is sufficient energy to overcome the bounds holding them together. However, it is still possible for them to "vibrate" in place. In a liquid the molecules aren't so closely bound together, allowing for relatively free movement.

### B
Describe how the motion of the molecules in a solid changes when the solid is heated

When a solid is heated, the particles are stuff stuck in the lattice that makes up the solid. However, they do start to "vibrate" in place, proportional to the amount of energy. With the vibrations increasing in magnitude as the energy increases, until the bonds of the lattice are overcome and the solid undergoes a phase transition (melting).

## 4
### A
State each of the following temperatures to the nearest degree on the absolute scale.

i: pure melting ice : 273K
ii: 20C : 253K
iii: -196C: 77k

### B
Gas thermometers are used to calibrate all thermometers. The pressure of a constant-volume gas thermometer was 100kPa at a temperature of 273K.

i: ?
ii: ?

